Samsung Can Sell Its Tablet In The U.S. Market


The war between Samsung Electronics and Apple seems to be never ending. The companies have engaged in an international warfare, across continents, with more than 20 cases in 10 countries. The latest news in the Samsung vs. Apple conflict comes from U.S. where a judge decided that Samsung can sell its tablet in the U.S. market.

In United States, Apple initiated a legal action against Samsung in April, claiming that the South Korean smartphones and tablets “slavishly” copy the iPhone and the iPad. As a result, Apple requested that Samsung will be prohibited from selling the gadgets in the U.S. market. The much expected ruling came late on Friday, as U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh denied Apple’s request for a preliminary injuction against Samsung.

U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh said that “It is not clear than an injuction on Samsung’s accused devices would prevent Apple from being irreparably harmed”. As a result, Koh rejected Apple’s request to bid sales of three Samsung smartphones models and the Samsung Tab 10.1. In the third quarter, Samsung had 23.8 percent of the global smartphone market, nine points higher than Apple.

The U.S. judge wrote that “Apple has established a likelihood of success on the merits at trial” regarding some of Samsung’s smartphones. Apple would likely prove Samsung infringed one of its tablet patents, but it did not show that it was likely to overcome Samsung’s challenges to the patent’s validity.

Although this might be a minor victory for Samsung, as Apple still has high changes of winning the overall lawsuit, Koh’s decision makes it possible for the South Korean company to start Christmas sales. 

Analysts say that global tablet sales are expected to boost to more than 50 million this year, with Apple still the leader of the market. The Silicon Valley based company sold 11.12 million units during the September quarter. So far, Apple sold more than 30 million iPads worldwide. 

Last week, a judge in Australia ruled in favor of Apple by extending a ban on Samsung’s iPad sales within the country. Australia is a key market for Samsung Galaxy Tablet and two weeks of banned sales isn’t much, but it can get urgent if Samsung won’t start selling the gadget before Christmas. 
